Guys, welcome to the first of many Swift deep dives. In these sections,
I take the opportunity to go into more detail on some of the Swift programming concepts that we've covered
in the previous lessons.
And the reason is because for all of these things, I'll explain to you as I go along
while we're coding. But sometimes some of these topics just deserve a little bit more explanation.
Now, for a lot of you who are new to programming, it can seem like there's an overwhelming amount of things
that you need to learn.
So these deep dives are partly revision
to recap some of the things that we've learned in previous lessons. But it also gives me an opportunity
to address those of you who are new to programming directly, so that we can really get a deep understanding
of the concepts that we're using and we're learning about. The first thing I want to talk about on naming
conventions,
and previously when we created our IBOutlets and IBActions,
we started naming them using camel casing.
Now, as I mentioned camel casing in Swift starts out with a lower case letter and every subsequent letter
has its first letter capitalized.
Now, camel casing is probably the most commonly used way of naming things in programming, but there are
other ways, too.
So often in web development, you'll see a lot of kebab casing,
so words which are all lowercase separated by a dash.
And there's also snake case where words are separated by a underscore.
Now, some of these things are just convention.
So often you'll see file names being named in snake case. You'll see a lot of web development using kebab
case and you'll see a lot of application programmers using camel casing.
Now, in Swift we don't even have to think about these other two.
We're going to stick with camel casing.
So whenever you're naming something in code, this is the format that we're going to stick with.
Now, the next topic I want to talk about is commenting.
We saw how we can use Swift to comment out code.
So commenting out means adding two forward slashes which tells Xcode that this line is not code anymore.
It's now a comment and you can do this by simply planning on writing a comment.
So very often you'll write a comment to explain what the next line of code does to save yourself time
the next time you come back to it.
But other times you might have an actual line of code. And just by putting two forward slashes in front
of it, then you deactivate that line of code but you still keep it around in case you need it in the
future.
So in order for you to have a play around with this, I recommend heading into Xcode and creating a new
playground.
So if you head ever to File, New and then select Playground, and then it should create a new playground
for you, and then it will ask you what kind of template you want.
So we're going to make sure we create an iOS template that is completely blank.
So let's go ahead and click next. And then I'm simply going to name it my playground and I'm going to
save it in the same place as everything else.
Now, once you're done, then you should be able to see this blank playground.
And I'm going to expand it to obscure our Dicee project behind. And the playground has three really important
areas.
You've got the code editor over here. You've got the interpreter which shows you the intermediate steps. And
then, finally, you've got the debug area which works really similar to the one we have in Xcode.
So the first thing I like to do with playgrounds is to click and hold this button and then change it
to automatically run my code.
So now every time I type some code, it's going to run it automatically without needing me to do any extra
work.
And then we're going to delete everything that's currently in our playground and I'm going to create
a new comment.
This is a comment. Now as I said before, if we had some actual code, let's say, I had a print statement
which says, "Hello World".
Now once that runs, you're going to see it print
down here in the debug console, and then it's also going to show up as an intermediate step to show what
this will print as.
Now, for now, we can ignore this right-hand side. When we learn a little bit more about Swift programming,
it's going to come in more handy.
But right now, I'm interested in the fact that this is code which is being executed and printing those
words I've told it to print.
But if I put two forward slashes in front of it, then it comments out the code, so it deactivates the code.
And when it runs again, then it no longer prints that code.
And this is now inactive code represented by this gray area.
Now, while one option was to do what we did which is just to add those two forward slashes manually, there's
a really helpful shortcut that Xcode gives us access to. If you hold down the command key and you're
somewhere on the line that you want to comment,
then if you press the forward slash key, it will automatically add two forward slashes. And this is because,
usually, when you're typing code, you're kind of towards the end of the sentence and then having to touch
the mouse and go back to the beginning,
it's kind of painful.
So it's easier to just hit command, forward slash, and it comments out the entire line of code.
And you can toggle it as many times as you want.
Now, if you're somebody who likes to write a lot and you want to write multi-line comments, then you can
do it like this.
You have a forward slash and then an asterisk, and then you can just start typing as much as you want
over multiple lines.
Once you're done, you type another asterisk and then close it off with a forward slash and everything
in between these two areas will be interpreted as a comment.
Go ahead and try this out in your Swift playground.
See how I can type, and as long as I'm in between these two asterisks, then I can write a comment.
But as soon as I'm outside, then this is going to be interpreted as code.
And if it doesn't make any sense, then it's going to give me an error. So this is a good segue way onto
another topic that we saw: the print statement. As you saw, a print statement is pretty simple.
We write the command print and then in between some round braces or some parentheses, we add whatever
it is that we want to print.
Now, so far, we've pretty much just been printing these strings, but we can also print other things.
Let's say if we wanted to perform a calculation in the middle of our print statement. So let's say, I wanted
to calculate 2+3. So that instead of printing "Hello 2+3 World" I wanted to print
"Hello 5 World" For this little bit of calculation to happen,
it can't be interpreted as just text, right?
It has to be code.
How can we insert bits of code in between bits of text?
Well, we can add a backslash and then a set of parentheses and everything that goes in between those
parentheses will be interpreted as code. And you can see that it gets highlighted even in a different
color, because text is always going to be red and code is going to be highlighted usually in a different
color.
So now when my code runs, it should say "Hello 5 World."
That is obviously being calculated and being executed.
So this is how we can insert code into our text. Now, text in programming is usually called a string because
it's kind of like a string of letters, right?
Notice how each of these letters are kind of just strung together like pearls on a necklace.
And that's what we call text.
So this way of adding code in between strings is called string interpolation.
By using that backslash and parentheses, we can insert bits of code in between bits of text which actually
comes in really handy when we're trying to figure out what's going on in our code or when we're trying
to test our code.
So for example, if you wanted to write the result of 5 + 3 = and then you can simply add
a backslash, a set of parentheses, and inside here you can actually make Xcode calculate 5 + 3.
And now when it runs, it'll say the result of 5 + 3 = 8.
So this is how you can insert code into a string. That's all for this first Swift deep dive and we can
now head back and continue building out our app.